_pages/about.md, before:

---
layout: about
title: home
permalink: /
subtitle: Autonomous and Intelligent Energy Systems Lab

profile:
  align: right
  image:
  image_circular: false
  more_info:

announcements:
  enabled: true
  scrollable: true
  limit: 5

latest_posts:
  enabled: false

selected_papers: false
social: true
---

The Autonomous and Intelligent Energy Systems Lab studies how advanced control methods and AI can improve energy efficiency and operational performance in real systems. Our work focuses on buildings, HVAC systems, industrial cooling, and data centres. We develop and evaluate control approaches such as reinforcement learning, model predictive control, and physics-based modelling to understand how these systems behave and how they can be operated more effectively.

## Research Areas

**Industrial Cooling and HVAC Optimization**

Control and optimisation of chilled-water plants, cooling towers, and HVAC systems, with an emphasis on hybrid and physics-guided approaches for efficient operation.

**Semantic and AI-Based Tools for Energy Systems**

Semantic models, structured data representations, and AI tools that make energy systems easier to understand, integrate, and operate.

**Data Centres and Grid-Interactive Operation**

Control and optimisation of data-centre cooling and related energy use, with interest in how these facilities can interact with and support future low-carbon grids.

## Current Work

- Autonomous control strategies for HVAC and industrial cooling
- RL/MPC methods for complex building and energy systems
- Semantic models and interpretable data structures for energy operations
- Digital-twin-based evaluation of control policies
- Energy-efficient operation of data centres

## Collaborations

The lab collaborates with industry partners and academic institutions to validate research under real-world constraints and enable practical deployment of advanced control methods.

We work with organisations operating HVAC systems, industrial cooling facilities, and data centres to develop and test control approaches that address actual operational challenges. These collaborations ensure that research outputs are technically rigorous and suitable for adoption in production environments.

Academic partnerships focus on advancing control theory, AI methodologies, and semantic modelling for energy systems, with emphasis on methods that can be integrated into real operations.

If you are interested in collaboration, please get in touch.

## People

**Founding Researcher**

**Pamekitti Puktalae**
MSc Smart Buildings and Digital Engineering, University College London
AI & Controls Engineer, AltoTech Global

Interests include autonomous control, RL/MPC, building systems, industrial cooling, and practical deployment of AI for energy operations.

---

## Contact

**Email**: pamekitti.puktalae.25@ucl.ac.uk

**GitHub**: [github.com/pamekitti](https://github.com/pamekitti)

Commit message:

Redesign site structure following Stanford SVL model
- Home page: Added Join us CTA, prepared research areas for carousel
- About page: Renamed to 'Research at AIES' with detailed research content
- Added collaboration logos section (ready for partner logos)
- Minimal contact sections at bottom of pages
- Removed redundant Collaborations section from home

_pages/about.md, after:

---
layout: about
title: home
permalink: /
subtitle: Autonomous and Intelligent Energy Systems Lab

profile:
  align: right
  image:
  image_circular: false
  more_info:

announcements:
  enabled: true
  scrollable: true
  limit: 5

latest_posts:
  enabled: false

selected_papers: false
social: true
---

## Welcome to the Autonomous and Intelligent Energy Systems Lab (AIES)

The Autonomous and Intelligent Energy Systems Lab studies how advanced control methods and AI can improve energy efficiency and operational performance in real systems. Our work focuses on buildings, HVAC systems, industrial cooling, and data centres. We develop and evaluate control approaches such as reinforcement learning, model predictive control, and physics-based modelling to understand how these systems behave and how they can be operated more effectively.

**Join us:** If you are interested in research opportunities at AIES, please visit our [Join](/join/) page or [contact us](#contact) directly.

---

## Research Areas

<!-- TODO: Implement carousel with navigation dots for research areas -->
<!-- Each slide should include an image and description -->

### Industrial Cooling and HVAC Optimization

Control and optimisation of chilled-water plants, cooling towers, and HVAC systems, with an emphasis on hybrid and physics-guided approaches for efficient operation.

### Semantic and AI-Based Tools for Energy Systems

Semantic models, structured data representations, and AI tools that make energy systems easier to understand, integrate, and operate.

### Data Centres and Grid-Interactive Operation

Control and optimisation of data-centre cooling and related energy use, with interest in how these facilities can interact with and support future low-carbon grids.

---

## Current Work

- Autonomous control strategies for HVAC and industrial cooling
- RL/MPC methods for complex building and energy systems
- Semantic models and interpretable data structures for energy operations
- Digital-twin-based evaluation of control policies
- Energy-efficient operation of data centres

---

## People

**Founding Researcher**

**Pamekitti Puktalae**
MSc Smart Buildings and Digital Engineering, University College London
AI & Controls Engineer, AltoTech Global

Interests include autonomous control, RL/MPC, building systems, industrial cooling, and practical deployment of AI for energy operations.

---

## Contact

**Email**: pamekitti.puktalae.25@ucl.ac.uk
**GitHub**: [github.com/pamekitti](https://github.com/pamekitti)
